[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Now it's going
to get really fun.
So I did this TV show
called "America Unearthed,"
and we did four
seasons, 49 episodes.
It was fantastic.
We had a lot of fun,
and I feel like we've
told all the things
that we really
wanted to tell in that way.
But because of that,
I was contacted by,
I mean, thousands and
thousands of emails.
Most of the stuff is
crazy, but not crazy.
Yeah, a lot of it's crazy,
but some of it's really good.
One of the things that happened
is I was approached by a guy
by the name of Don
Ruh that you're
going to meet in a second.
And then you're going
to meet his best friend.
His name is Bill Jackson.
And these guys
were best friends.
They lived in New York.
They lived in the Bronx
when they were younger.
And Don is still alive.
He's 80 years old.
In fact, he and I have
written two books I'm
going to talk about at the end.
But his buddy, Bill, in
1971, purchased something
called the Cremona Document.
And we didn't know what it
was until fairly recently.
But this is really cool.
It's a 12th-century Templar
document that has been upgraded
multiple times
over the centuries.
Now, the way this story
started is Bill and Don
and some other guys used to
go scuba diving off Bannerman
Island, which is in the
middle of the Hudson River,
about an hour North
of New York City.
And what happened was
Bannerman was an arms dealer.
And during the
Civil War, he would
sell to both the
North and the South.
And then his son took
over the business,
and he actually got in
trouble selling weapons
to different parties
during World War I.
And in the early part
of 1918, he died.
His sons argued over the estate.
The estate fell into disrepair
and then basically into ruins.
In 1958, the munitions that
were stored on the island right
here by the castle exploded
and sent all this stuff
into the river.
Those guys were scuba
diving in the river looking
for the munitions so they
could take it into the city
and sell it and get money.
Well, one of the things
that happened is Don--
now, this is a
drone shot I took.
But right about here,
only a quarter mile
away from the island
would be the eastern shore
of the Hudson River.
And Don was snorkeling
along there, and he found--
oh, there's Don.
[CHUCKLES]
This is a year
ago this fall when
we were in the woods,
when Janet and I and Don
went looking for a treasure in
the documents, and we found it.
But we haven't told anybody yet.
It'll happen.
So after we got done,
we took some pictures.
And I'll come back, but
remember these smiling faces.
So Don is snorkeling
along the eastern side,
and he finds this
decorative ornament
that got blown off the island
from the flower gardens
because Mrs. Bannerman
was a florist.
And she had these
beautiful flower gardens,
and these were decorative
ornaments that got blown off
the island when it exploded.
And Bill, his buddy, his wife,
Miriam, was also a gardener.
So he gave both of the--
he found two of them.
He gave them both to Miriam--
Muriel, and she put 'em
in her flower garden.
A year later, in 1969,
his five-year-old son Mark
was playing in the garden.
And he grabbed that round ball
on the top, and he broke it.
It fell to the ground, and
they realized that there
was stuff inside of it.
Now, that's Don when we
interviewed him last year,
standing on the island,
standing about on the spot
where he found one
of those ornaments.
Inside this ornament
was a brass disk.
It's actually a
navigation device.
It's almost exactly the
size of a hockey puck.
And when you open it up,
there were four metal inserts
inside of it.
The other thing that they found
was a 4-inch long clay tube that
was sealed with
beeswax on either end.
And inside, there
were two parchments.
And on the parchments
were these Theban symbols.
Now, I'll come back and tell
you a little more about Theban,
but Theban was used
by the Templars.
It's a one-to-one
letter substitution.
Do you see all the little
Ms in all the characters?
That's for Mary, the goddess.
That was their alphabet.
In any case, I'll
come back to this.
Just hold that thought.
Here's Bill, Bill Jackson.
He worked for a private
security company--
that's what I'm
supposed to say--
[CHUCKLES] from '62 to '94.
He served in the Korean War.
And when he got out,
he needed a job.
Don had already-- they
started the company in 1961.
He said, I'll get you a job.
And so that's when
he joined in '62.
In 1971, because
of that brass disk
and the things that were
etched on these metal inserts,
led him to go to Rome, where
he purchased this document
from a very prominent Italian
family, the Benvenuto Family.
It contains encrypted
messages and treasure maps
and all kinds of stuff of the
Templars, of the Templar order.
I'm going to talk a little
bit about the treasures.
There's a firsthand narrative in
these documents that had to be--
it was encrypted and
had to be decoded,
but it talks about the
Templars going under the South
Wall of the Temple Mount.
And it talks about
what they found,
and I'll get to that in a sec.
What they found led them to
take a trip to North America
to recover scrolls that had been
hidden prior to that, sometime
before the year 1000.
During that journey,
six ships came over.
They lost one
rounding Newfoundland.
Bill, when he got it
deciphered, knew about this.
And he said, hey, Don,
I want to take a trip.
I want you to come with me.
We're going to go to
Newfoundland and go
scuba diving.
And Don says he said the
magic words, "I'll pay."
[CHUCKLES] So they went,
and they found that ship.
That convinced Bill
that the story was true,
and it went on from there.
Later on, they went up to
the Temple of the Goddess,
which is where the scrolls
were hidden, that a Templar
knight, by the name of Sir Ralph
de Sudeley, led this mission.
And their navigator was a
woman by the name of Altomara,
and she was killed during a
skirmish between two warring
tribes back in probably 1179.
Her body was burned, put
inside of a small box,
and then it was put
in a small cave.
And in 1977, they found
that cave and the urn
with her ashes and
the offerings that
were filled inside the cave.
In 1994, Bill was
a medical doctor.
And in 1994, he realized he was
dying from arteriosclerosis,
and he had Parkinson's disease.
So he sold the document
to the Vatican.
Yes.
Nobody's more disappointed
than me when I found that out.
What are you doing?
But all is not lost.
Hold that.
Here's Don and I when we
filmed "America Unearthed"
episode at the tower
a few years ago.
Don's 6 foot 8, and
I'm not that tall.
I'm 6' 2".
He's bigger.
He worked for the same
company, but he was one
of the founders of the company.
He and Bill were best friends.
They met when Don was seven.
Bill was 11.
Don never married,
so he was always
available to go on these
excursions with Bill.
You can't say no.
You got nothing going.
And he was there when
they discovered the ship.
And we've got his notebook,
and you won't believe the notes
that he took, the copious
notes, the detail, the sketches.
It's unbelievable.
He found a 12th-century
Templar ship.
It's still there.
He was there when they
discovered Altomara's tomb
in 1977.
And in 2004-- remember
Mark, the little boy
that broke the ornament?
He signed an agreement
with Don, turning over
all of his father's
research, everything to him,
and the rights to
use it in 2004.
And then a couple
of years later,
that's when Don contacted us.
And we've been working
with them ever since.
But the critical items
showed up, starting in 2017.
In the end, what we realized
was that Bill sold the document
to the Vatican.
But he pulled out the most
important parts and the maps.
And I mean, you'll see.
And he gave it to his
buddies in the agency.
Now, these guys used to
do really secret stuff
for our military.
They were hired
by-- their bosses
were military
generals that would
have them do certain things.
And as far as I'm concerned,
these guys are heroes.
They did this work.
Don's been shot twice,
knowing that they would never
be acknowledged, the
world would never know.
They'd just got paid.
But he's awful modest about it.
But what happened
was he disseminated
these important parts
to his colleagues
in the agency with strict
instructions upon their deaths
that this material
would go to Don Ruh.
And in the last six years,
five of them have died.
Don gets on the phone.
Scott, John Drake died.
I got a package.
Don't open it.
I'll be right there.
We jump in the car, and
we drive to New York.
I'm not making this up.
And boy, this is the most
fun I've ever had in my life.
Anyway, so check this out.
So in one of the packages,
there was a letter
that Bill wrote to a
guy named John Lennon.
He lived in Scotland
at the time,
and he worked for Scotland Yard.
And anytime Spartan
had missions,
the guys would go
to British Isles.
He was the liaison.
Well, he gave him some
stuff, and in the stuff
was a letter that he wrote.
It's a beautiful letter that
answered a lot of our questions,
but this is the
part that's cool.
He says, "Don Ruh is
the only person that
took my research seriously
and has helped me
with it over the years, so I
include this portion to him
but wish to do so after I
have departed this Earth.
Since he is the youngest
of the Spartan personnel,
I think he will survive long
enough for the current political
situation in America to have
passed on, leaving what I hope
will be a more open government
with less red tape."
And when Don read this, he went,
huh, Bill would be disappointed.
[LAUGHS] Yeah, sadly, he would.
It's gotten worse, not better.
So this is the Title Page.
In Latin, that veritas vos
liberabit means "the truth will
set you free."
It's comprised of reports, all--
this is one in French that
was encrypted but then was
decoded into French.
Maps, letters.
That's a letter that was written
sometime between 1772 when
the guy that wrote it
died and 1749 because he
mentions that date
twice in the letter.
And encrypted documents.
We have, so far, 15
encrypted documents
that have come to us
that we've deciphered.
So remember, I was telling you
that the first message talks
about them going
under the South Wall,
the Templars, back around 1118.
And this document is encrypted,
and it's a first-hand narrative
about their getting in and
going underneath the South Wall
and finding an underground
ritual chamber.
This is in Jerusalem.
Inside that ritual chamber
were four stone boxes
called ossuaries.
Do you guys know
what ossuaries are?
Well, these are
ossuaries right here.
And basically, back in
the first century and only
in the first century--
because when the Romans
crushed the Jews,
this practice was over.
This was practiced by Essenes.
They're part of the
Templar tradition
back in their time period.
But when somebody passed
away, only the body
of the members of the
family could process
the body of the deceased.
And what they would
do is bring them
into an underground
chamber that had two rooms.
One was called an antechamber,
where the south end would be
open to the sky, to the world.
So this was the antechamber.
This would be open and
surrounded by rock on all sides.
Then there was an entrance
from the antechamber
into a burial chamber,
the second room.
And what they would
do is the family
would anoint the body
with perfumes and oils,
wrap it in a shroud, and
then bring it into the burial
chamber, and put it on one
of these benches, where it
would sit for one to two years.
The body would
decompose and desiccate,
and then they would
collect the bones
and put them in these bone
boxes, these ossuaries that
were only big enough so the
two largest bones in the body
would fit in, crossed.
The skull would go in last.
And now the origin of the
skull and crossbones symbol.
That's what it goes back to.
And it's interesting that the
Templars, after the put down,
became pirates.
And what would they fly?
The Jolly Roger.
It was an ode to their
ancient tradition.
So now getting back, they found
four ossuaries in this tomb.
In the first one--
oh, there you go--
[CHUCKLES] they
found 12 scrolls,
written in ancient
Hebrew script,
which is called
scriptio continua.
There's no breaks, there's
no periods, no punctuations.
It's just letters, and you
have to separate it out
into what the message says,
into the different words.
In the second ossuary, they
found gold, pretty excited
about that, with
the Hebrew symbol.
The Ivri is the old
word for Hebrew,
and it had the Seal of
Solomon symbol on it, back.
It was stamped on the gold.
The other thing that they
found in the third ossuary
were five devices.
Two were used for navigation.
Two were used for construction,
and one was a cryptex
that you needed to be able to
decipher the scrolls that they
found.
In the last box, the
fourth box they found--
well, they found science.
In the fourth box,
they found the remains
of a person whose head had been
severed with a heavy, sharp ax.
On the side of the box, the name
that was carved on it was Yon.
There was no J back
then, John the Baptist.
Bernard bags the bones.
They took them.
The question is,
where are they today?
John the Baptist.
So once they--
actually, what happened
was those scrolls were sent
to Bernard of Clairvaux,
who then sent them to a woman
named Hildegard of Bingen.
And she used that cryptex, and
she deciphered the messages
that talked about other scrolls
hidden in the land of Onteora,
North America.
And so what happened is, six
decades later, Sir Ralph de
Sudeley was-- a total of six
Templar Knights, including
himself, and 144 men and
women mounted an expedition
to go recover those scrolls.
That was their mission, to go
to the Temple of the Goddess,
which is in upstate New
York on Hunter Mountain
to recover those scrolls.
It's a three-year voyage
that began in Wales.
Six ships, 140 men and women.
And the Navigator was a woman by
the name of Princess Altomara.
She was the one that was
killed, and it was her ashes
that they found all
those years later.
We 20 and 6 disembarked.
I just want to point out
that 26 is 2 times 13.
The numerology is very important
and serves as internal evidence
in these documents that
help prove the veracity
of these documents.
And this is just one example
of a billion examples
of internal evidence.
Altomara led them to the
Temple of the Goddess
in the land called Onteora.
That was the name
that was inscribed
on one of those
metal inserts that
led Bill to buy the
document in the first place.
And then the story of
what happened is amazing,
but there was a three-day
ritual that suddenly
had to go through with the
priestess and the people
of the Temple of the Goddess in
three different caves in three
different nights.
And on the last night, the
priestess enters the cave
and offers herself to him.
And he says, I'm sorry, I can't.
I took vows of chastity.
And she said, you pass.
You can have the scrolls,
which was pretty cool.
When you read the
story, it's really cool.
But he couldn't take
all the scrolls.
He was allowed to take
half of the scrolls.
And then they wintered over on
the East End of Long Island.
They built a ship,
and they sailed back.
They arrived in the
spring to Seborga, Italy,
where his deposition was taken.
And there were two monks that
recorded it, one for the church
and one for the order.
And that is this story.
So it's pretty cool.
So the question is, how did
Don get this information?
You remember when he said,
he would be disappointed?
That was here, this day,
right-- this had just happened,
and I filmed this whole thing.
Anyway, here's some more
Theban in this document,
and that's another story.
But in 2017, Bill's
daughter, Melissa,
sent a package a week and a
half after Rick Lagina with
"The Curse of Oak Island"
had visited Don and gave him
a contract to come on the show.
And Don turned it
down, of course.
Anyway Melissa had-- one of
the things she gave, Don,
were two treasure maps and
the first page of the Cremona
Document, which has the cipher
phrase Aelia Capitolina,
the old name of Jerusalem
back 2,000 years ago.
That is mandatory to be
able to decode the story.
So the Vatican bought
a worthless document.
[LAUGHS] I love this guy.
Anyway, John Drake died,
John Lennon, Dan Spartan.
This is us opening the Dan
Spartan box back in 2021.
Oh, my God, the stuff that was
in there, including a map that
was 3 feet by 2 feet that has--
its map 8 that has 13
parts, Fibonacci sequence
again, with all the
treasure sites, all of them.
It's fantastic.
And then Dave Rian,
and then Roberta.
So I want to mention quickly
the Sinclair/Wemyss journals.
Another person called me in
2016 who had watched the show
and said, I have the journals
of Earl Henry Sinclair.
I said, sure you do.
This is in the email.
Delete.
She wrote back the next day.
She said, no, really, I've
got the journals of Earl Henry
Sinclair.
Sure you do.
Delete.
Then a week later,
she sent me one more.
She told me, she goes, I was
going to try one more time.
She said, this time, I added
pictures and her phone number.
And I looked at the pictures.
I go, [MIMICS DIALING TONE] hi.
[CHUCKLES]
So eventually, I met with
her, and she brought with her
this map.
It's a lambskin map.
I'm not going to show
you what's on it,
but it's a map that was
made by Antonio Zeno, who
sailed with Earl Henry
Sinclair to the New World
to bury treasures
in the New World
that the Templars escaped with.
Remember that story?
If you've heard the story
of the Templars in 1307
when they were put down,
and the King of France
sends his church
agents to the Treasury
at the headquarters in Paris.
And they open it up,
and everything was gone.
Then they went to the Western
port of La Rochelle in France,
and the 18 ships that were there
that were loaded with treasure
were gone and
disappeared into history.
Well, they didn't
disappear into history.
They went to Isle of Man.
They went to Scotland, came
over here in the latter part
of the 14th century.
And they buried him
in multiple places,
including Oak
Island for someday.
Anyway, something
really cool here,
and this is one of the
journals right here.
Now, these journals were written
by two prominent Scottish clans.
This was a
father-to-son tradition.
When the treasures were
brought over by Earl Henry,
his son was obligated to go
over and check on the treasures
to make sure
everything was safe.
You were to visit the Western
lands to check on the treasures
twice in your lifetime,
once with your father,
once with your son.
And they all did it except
for two generations of the 15
generations that did this.
The first entry to the
last spans 417 years,
the first one in 1353,
the last in 1770.
There's 20 volumes.
13 were written in Latin,
two in Old English, and 5
in Modern English.
This is one of the last
ones in modern English.
And one map compiled
by Antonio Zeno.
And Earl Henry came over twice.
He actually came
over three times,
once when he was eight years
old, once in 1395, and once
in 1398.
This map was made
by Antonio Zeno.
That's 1395.
But you look at his sigla.
You know what a sigla is, right?
It's a fancy way of
writing your initials,
all tied in one symbol.
So you see the A, Z, right?
But there's more to it.
That's the fish symbol.
The fish.
Remember the vesica piscis?
And the M-- together, they
make the symbol of what?
Virgo, the goddess.
Here are some of the entries.
May 5, 1395, Earl
Henry's 49 years old.
"We leave this daybreak from
Kirkwall for the western banks
with the blessings
of King Robert--"
this would be King Robert
III, Robert the Bruce III--
"with the support of the hirdmen
who will oversee my obligations
in Orknades while I am gone.
Our goal is to find a better
route to the empires of China
further south than the
ice-covered lakes."
Those are the Great Lakes.
I thought Chris didn't
get here till 1492.
How did they know about it?
Because they'd already
been here many times.
"And suitable land
for settlement
beyond the boundaries
of Groenland,
which we visited on our journey.
We also travel with 120
remaining Knights Templars,
descendants of those
at Bannockburn under
my grandfather's rule--" that
would be King Robert the Bruce
I, in search of a
free Templar state."
They served at Bannockburn.
Have you guys heard of
the Battle of Bannockburn?
It's the greatest battle
in the history of Scotland,
when King Robert the Bruce
defeated the English.
It's like their big day.
It's like their 1776.
Well, there's a legend
that the Templars helped
turn the battle to the Scots.
Well, according to this, that
legend is, in fact, true.
"We search for suitable places
to transfer the Templar treasure
hidden in Scotland."
And on that map, there
are eight locations.
And then they went back again,
and they put nine locations.
and there were a whole bunch.
Oak Island is one of
about 30 locations.
Templars aren't stupid.
They would never put all
their eggs in one basket.
James Wemyss wrote this in 1560.
"I leave this morrow to
visit the Western Lands
with my grandson,
David of Wemyss.
I pray that Holy Father
and the Holy Goddess
will strengthen me
and allow me to pass
this task to my grandson.
We must first find the
first markers left behind
by Sir Duncan and secure
the help of the Ahherah,
the Indigenous people.
They worship the Great
Goddess and have been allies
of the Covenant for
over 200 years."
This mission to establish this
sanctuary, this free Templar
state, this new Jerusalem,
this new Atlantis,
according to Brother Francis
Bacon, was called the Covenant.
A covenant is an
agreement with deity.
It's the highest agreement,
the most sacred agreement
you can have.
And they took it seriously.
And I think this is
an important point
to point out or point
in time to point out.
And I'll get to the
end of this in a sec.
The reason the Templars
could go all over the world,
and especially in North
America and South America
where they spent
most of their time,
was because they bonded
with the Indigenous people
through ritual, Freemasonry,
and intermarriage.
And basically, what the
natives said is, look,
you are our brothers.
You want us to guard
these treasures?
They didn't care about treasure.
It meant nothing to them.
But it means something to
you, so we will guard it.
And they did that for 400 years.
Eventually, you
know what happened.
They recovered those treasures,
and they founded America.
So when we start
patting ourselves
on the back as Freemasons
and as white people,
we need to remember that
our founding fathers did
a great job.
But the natives--
they did it with them,
and we have to remember them.
The other thing you're
going to find out
is that when they did go
to recover those treasures,
they brought slaves
with them, who
were given their manumission.
Do you know what
a manumission-- do
you know what that word means?
I didn't.
I had to look it up.
It means to give a
slave their freedom.
And they went up there and
helped recover those slaves.
So when we celebrate
our independence,
it's not just our
founding fathers.
It's these Indigenous people
that we owe a debt of gratitude
to and these African
American slaves.
And how did we thank them?
The word is genocide.
But I will tell you this.
One of the first things
that occurred to me
when I figured out
the Runestone was real
and we started trying to
answer those other questions--
I said to myself, well, if
they're traipsing over here all
the way to Minnesota,
wouldn't they
have interacted
with the natives?
Duh.
So we reached out to them
and I actually participated
in a Midewiwin sweat.
You probably don't
know what that word is,
but Midewiwin is the secret
society of the natives.
That's what they call
their Freemasonry.
And so when I went
into the sweat
and I finally earned my
right to ask questions,
the medicine man said, Scott,
what do you want to know?
I said, well, I'd like
to ask you some questions
about the Knights Templar.
He said, oh, you mean
our blood brothers?
It went pretty good after that.
So I just want to make
sure that I point that out
because it wasn't just
our founding fathers.
Anyway.
William "The Builder--"
do you know who he is?
How many have heard
of Rosslyn Chapel?
He built it.
That's why he's called
William "The Builder."
He went over when he was 24,
and he met with these guys
that his grandfather
had brought over.
They were old men by
this time, married
and living in these
communities with the natives.
And they were telling William
stories about his grandfather
that he never met, that, we
find out in the journals,
died four years
before he was born.
And in the journals, he writes,
"When I return to Scotland,
I resolve to build an edifice in
stone in honor of my grandfather
and the knights
who stayed behind."
And they were guarding
the treasures.
Anyway, a free Templar state.
Now, this is amazing.
Flash forward, the last guy
to write in the journals,
we call him John Wemyss Jr.
because his dad was John Wemyss
Sr. We just call him Junior.
He was living in North
Carolina, and he got a message
from his father.
It said, son, I need to see
you as soon as possible.
It's very important.
Get here as quickly as you can.
I'm paraphrasing.
And he scooted up, and he went
to Abington, Pennsylvania.
It's about a 20-minute
drive north of Philadelphia.
And when he went
there, he showed up.
His father said, son,
you're to go with these two
men of his father's age
and read these journals,
and you'll understand.
It was his turn to go
check on the treasures.
This is 1769.
He goes up there.
Everything's fine.
He comes back.
And about 2 and 1/2 months
later, his father said, son,
the political
situation has changed.
You need to round
up a bunch of men.
And next year, you're going to
go back and get the treasures.
So he did that.
He rounded up 46 men, all
Freemasons, and 6 slaves,
and they went up.
But before they left, there was
a secret meeting in Abington
at a place called the
Friends' School, a Quaker
Friends' School.
And it's still there.
This space has been added on
six times, but it's still there.
And I'll never forget.
We gave a tour there, and
there were people there.
And I was standing in this
space, and I read this entry.
And I was literally shaking.
"My father, having been raised
to the status of Master Mason
in the 46th British Regiment--"
we had to go to Canada to vet
this because he was British, but
their obligation to the covenant
was more important than
their allegiance to the Crown
and to the craft,
to Freemasonry.
"Which was presided
over the meeting,
was attended by William Ball
of Philadelphia and Benjamin
Franklin, the former Provincial
Grand Master of Pennsylvania."
Remember, we weren't
a country yet.
"The Brethren gathered
in the schoolhouse,
and for three hours,
were impressed upon
by the presiding Brethren the
importance of their mission.
We were each divided
into groups of five
and told to embrace each
other in the coming journey
and to learn to trust and
depend upon each other
as it would become vitally
important in our task.
The presiding Brethren also
imparted their knowledge
of current political
events and told us
that it was immensely important
that the Templar Treasure find
its way back to the Grand Lodge.
We would soon lose control of
the territory in Nova Scotia,
and the Brethren
feared it would be lost
if not retrieved straight away.
They reiterated that secrecy
was of the utmost importance
and that we would always be
surrounded by British troops,
who might report
our every move."
Brother Franklin reminded
us that no matter
what our political or
religious leanings,
our loyalty to the Brethren
was most important.
We must honor our commitment
and remember our vows,
or the burgeoning nation of free
men might never come to pass.
This is a 28-year-old guy
who led this mission up,
and they got him, obviously.
[CHUCKLES] Isn't that amazing?
You didn't read about this
in Franklin's memoirs.
He didn't tell anyone.
So remember the last
person, Roberta?
So when Don and I and
Janet were sitting
in the woods, that picture where
we're smiling in the woods,
we had just
recovered a treasure.
And we were just freaking.
So at one point, we
look at Don and go, Don,
is there anybody left?
Like, is anyone else going
to die and leave you stuff?
He said, no.
He said, McMasters, he
and Bill never got along.
Bill wouldn't have
left anything for him.
And then he goes,
Bill had a girlfriend.
Well, guess what?
The Goddess came through.
She had about 50 pages
of encrypted messages,
six encrypted messages.
She wanted 300 bucks.
I couldn't lay that
money out fast enough.
Half of the content
is about Oak Island.
You aren't even
going to believe it.
I'm telling you, it's
amazing, everything--
everything.
Anyway.
So this is one of them.
And it says, "The power
of God is within you,"
which ended up being the cipher
phrase for some of the other
ones.
This is the final writing of
this report, first done in 1308
and revised three
times till 1908.
So what Bill brought was
the final revised document
that was done in 1908.
The final putting of
the relic is told here.
What's the relic?
Remember we talked about
relic in the very beginning.
This is the account of the
journey and the 300-year project
to secure the relic, now held
by Lionel de Waldern III,
one of the six knights that went
over to recover the scrolls was
Lionel de Waldern I.
The Last Supper Cup or the
skull of John the Baptist--
we know they got the
skull of John the Baptist.
We know that.
It's that.
Here's another one of
the encrypted messages.
It's got 24 sections of
12 lines, 24 of them.
The message is 6609
characters long.
Again, scriptio continua.
We had to put the words in.
This one is mostly
about Oak Island.
What happened there?
"The power of God
is within you."
So as I'm deciphering this,
I get to a certain point.
And if the phrase came
up and it was misspelled,
"The power of God,"
then I screwed it up.
And I screwed it up plenty.
But they put it
in there 13 times
to make sure you were
getting the message right.
Hooked Xs all through them.
This is one page of my work.
I just want to point out "Lionel
de Waldern VI grows strong like
his father."
That'd be the V.
"He has two sons."
That would be the VII.
"And I am his second son."
Ueire pledged to the
service of the angel Kay."
Who's Kay?
Hold that thought.
Dave Rian, when
he passed, left us
a cryptogram that was 13 parts.
And he left the alphabet
down here, which was nice.
And this was done
in 1898, ironically,
the same year the Kensington
Runestone was found.
And there's a messy, hooked
X. That was just simply
an acknowledgment of deity.
13 parts.
OK, Now I want you
guys to help me.
I'm a rock head.
I'm a geologist.
I run a lab.
That's what I do.
I've never had anything
against aliens.
I just never thought about it.
Well, guess what?
They had other plans for me.
So you help me understand
what this says.
And I'm serious.
"I saw the lights again."
Remember, this is 1898.
"Could be an ill omen.
The right one descended
upon my winter lodge.
And behold, there stood
the likeness of a mon."
We thought it was "a man."
But every time we ran
it through, it was an O,
not an A. And maybe it's
not "a mon" or "a man,"
or maybe it's "amon."
"He was of common dress
and medium height.
He had about the eyes
shown a light blue."
There were no planes back then.
What descended?
A light.
What is he talking about?
"So I know the lights
are of angels."
There's a whole
bunch in the middle.
It's not relevant.
"Yet, all are not of the Lord.
Some are of his brother."
Now, this is his wife.
But then he says, "So
has passed the scroll
of the Wars of the Lord
from the world of men.
Know by my sigal of my
ancestors all I write is true.
Tala' co, Gray, CLY."
CLY was the guy that did all the
copying because his sigla is all
through it.
But he also had a native name.
He was Gray Eagle.
Roberta's message number four--
"the cup of our
Lord Christ Jesus."
They brought that over here,
too, and it's here now.
So the free Templar state--
the Templars founded
this nation in part
because they wanted to establish
a place that would be free
from the tyranny of
the monarchs of Europe,
free from the persecution of
the Roman Catholic Church.
And it's interesting that
in Parsifal, 12th century,
is the first time we
hear somebody talk about,
every human being is born with
certain inalienable rights,
regardless of color, creed,
nationality, whatever.
All I know is everybody in this
room and everybody in the world,
if I cut you, your blood is red.
We all need to
remember that, I think.
Rights of the individual.
The founding fathers
finished the job
the Templars started 600 years
earlier through a covenant
with the Goddess by the
establishment of the Free
Templar State we now call
the United States of America.
Could America be the
Templars' "Holy Grail?"
So let's go back through
our list real quick.
Cup at the Last Supper--
yep.
Treasure-- oh, yeah,
lots of treasure.
Relics-- yep, and I haven't
told you about all of them.
Certainly the skull
of John the Baptist.
The bloodline-- Bernhard
and his family members
and Lionel de Waldern.
You met seven of them.
What I didn't introduce you
to was Lionel de Waldern XXI,
who wrote a letter
about his mission
to recover the rest of
the scrolls, which he did.
So the Bloodline is
certainly part of this.
Alchemy/science-- I
mean, the Templars
were masters of navigation.
These towers were
also used to calculate
the circumference of the Earth.
Is that important?
Hell, yes.
If you're sailing on the oceans,
you know how much food and water
to pack for.
That gives you an advantage
over your competition.
This is just one example of
how science and knowledge gave
the Templars an advantage,
and this knowledge
came from the Atlanteans.
That's where they got it.
Spiritual
enlightenment-- Yahweh.
I didn't tell you about this.
But in "The Book of
the Wars of the Lord,"
which is one of the documents
that was hidden over there,
that, to this day, if
you google it, it'll say,
there is no extant copy known
to exist in the world today.
We have two parts of
it in these documents.
In one of the parts, it
talks about how Yahweh,
which is the Hebrew word for
"deity," is actually "Yah"
and "Weh," male, female.
And the way you pronounce
it is you go in the middle,
and you pronounce it
backwards, inside out.
And it's pronounced "hoohee."
And anyway, there's
a lot more to that.
So yeah, that's an
enlightening thing.
The balance we
talked about, it's
the hooked X. Sacred
feminine-- the Goddess is all
through this stuff.
And the New Jerusalem--
Kensington Runestone land
claim to establish America.
They didn't need to
recover the Runestone,
because the founding
fathers finished the job.
So in light of all of this and
all of that, let me ask you
this--
could the Holy Grail
actually be truth?
I like that myself.
Thank you so much for coming.
Have a great time
at the conference.
[APPLAUSE]
[THEME MUSIC]